# Machine-Learning-Engineer-Prediction-Model
# Task:
I have been given a dataset where it consists of the number of the observed scanned receipts for each day in the year 2021. Based on this prior knowledge, I have developed and optimized an algorithm which can predict the approximate number of the scanned receipts for each month of 2022.

I have implemented several mathematical calculations and the use of linear algebra and matrix operations to help develop several functions in the use of machine learning and to be able to accuractly predict the scanned recipients for each month of 2022. 

The program I have created is split into 2 parts:

Part 1 is assuming there is no prior data and information to train and find the prior mean and standard deviation. Thus, I have only used the information file that includes information for each day in 2021 and the recipient count for each, respectively. This part is kind of an exploration in which I treated it as a way to see the data through the use of visualizations and have further created 9 models which increase in polynomial degree. For example, model 1 is the simple linear regression model, where we have an x (in thus case, Day_of_Year) as the coefficent and the response is y (in this case, recipient count), and model 9 is a 9th degree polynomial using the coefficent we were provided with. In order to make this simplier and more convient to read, I have transformed both the explantory (x) variable and response (y) variable - where the Date is labeled 1 - 365 to represent each day of the year. Likewise, the response is transformed into millions, so instead of having 7,500,000 - we would have 7.50. This make it easier to read and interpret. The part 1 file guides through the visualizations, code, model selection, and interpretation of the steps I have done and completed in the first phase of this machine learning engineering tasks. 


Part 2 is where all the fun math and linear algebra takes place. After selecting the best model from part 1, which had no prior, I have finally incorporated the use of the prior data. This now allows us to gain a way better insight of the data and to make our future predictions - in which I like to call the "log posterior", which is a fancy machine learning term to calculate the posterior or future mean and standard deviation to help get a better idea of the data and in order to make future predictions based on learning from the prior. Just like in part 1, I have made commnets and paragraphs that explain each step that I have took and the math behind it - especially when creating optimzation functions that incorporate the Laplace Approximate, which helps using find our posterior mean and standard deviation - which can also be called the posterior mode in machine learning terms. 

After doing all that and visualizing the posterior trends and predictions, we can see how important the prior gives us because it helps us minimize the uncertainty between making predictions based on future data that we have not seen before - such as the Year 2022 to predict recipient count. The end of part 1 shows how uncertain the predictions were when we tried to predict the recipient count in millions for the Year 2022 - as classified as days 366 - 730. However, once we introduced the prior and calculated the posterior mode and standard deviation from our optimization function and the Heissen matrix, we saw that the same inputs for the Year 2022 had a much better certainty for making those posterior predictions. At the very end of part 2, you can see the actual dataframe for the Year 2022 and the prediction in recipient count - in terms of millions. 
